.TH "SUPERTUXKART" "6" "10/20/2019" "SuperTuxKart 1.1" "SuperTuxKart Manual"
.SH NAME
supertuxkart \(em a fun racing game with go-karts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
supertuxkart [options] [<args>]
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
This program accepts some optional parameters.

.\" TODO: Fix indentation for inner "sub-options" as
.\" '--gp=NAME' under '-t'. // 2019

.PP
.BR \-N ", " \-\-no\-start\-screen
.RS 4
Immediately start race without showing a menu.
.RE

.PP
.BR \-R ", " \-\-race\-now
.RS 4
Same as \-N but also skip the ready\-set\-go phase and the music.
.RE

.PP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-track=NAME
.RS 4
Start track NAME.
.RE

.PP
.BR \-\-gp=NAME
.RS 4
Start the specified Grand Prix.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-add\-gp\-dir=DIR
.RS 4
Load Grand Prix files in DIR. Setting will be saved
in config.xml under additional_gp_directory. Use
"\-\-add\-gp\-dir=" to unset.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-stk\-config=FILE
.RS 4
use ./data/FILE instead of ./data/stk_config.xml
.RE
.PP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-numkarts=NUM
.RS 4
Set number of karts on the race track.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-kart=NAME
.RS 4
Use kart NAME.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-ai=a,b,...
.RS 4
Use the karts a, b, ... for the AI, and additional player kart.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-aiNP=a,b,...
.RS 4
Use the karts a,b, ... for the AI, no additional player kart.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-laps=N
.RS 4
Define number of laps to N.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-mode=N
.RS 4
N=0 Normal, N=1 Time trial, N=2 Battle, N=3 Soccer,
N=4 Follow The Leader. In configure server use "\-\-battle\-mode=N"
for battle server and "\-\-soccer\-timed" / goals for soccer server
to control verbosely, see below.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-difficulty=N
.RS 4
N=0 Beginner, N=1 Intermediate, N=2 Expert, N=3 SuperTux.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-battle\-mode=N
.RS 4
Specify battle mode in network, 0 is Free\-For\-All and
1 is Capture The Flag.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-soccer\-timed
.RS 4
Use time limit mode in network soccer game.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-soccer\-goals
.RS 4
Use goals limit mode in network soccer game.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-reverse
.RS 4
Play track in reverse (if allowed)
.RE
.PP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-fullscreen
.RS 4
Use fullscreen display.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-windowed
.RS 4
Use windowed display (default).
.RE
.PP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-screensize=WxH
.RS 4
Set the display size (e.g. 320x200).
.RE
.PP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
.RS 4
Print version of SuperTuxKart.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-trackdir=DIR
.RS 4
A directory from which additional tracks are
loaded.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-seed=N
.RS 4
Seed for random number generation to provide reproducible behavior.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-profile\-laps=N
.RS 4
Enable automatic driven profile mode for N laps.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-profile\-time=N
.RS 4
Enable automatic driven profile mode for N seconds.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-unlock\-all
.RS 4
Permanently unlock all karts and tracks for testing.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-no\-unlock\-all
.RS 4
Disable unlock\-all (i.e. base unlocking on player achievement).
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-no\-graphics
.RS 4
Do not display the actual race.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-sp\-shader\-debug
.RS 4
Enables debug in sp shader, it will print all unavailable uniforms.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-demo\-mode=t
.RS 4
Enables demo mode after t seconds of idle time in main menu.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-demo\-tracks=t1,t2
.RS 4
List of tracks to be used in demo mode. No spaces are allowed in
the track names.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-demo\-laps=N
.RS 4
Number of laps to use in a demo.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-demo\-karts=N
.RS 4
Number of karts to use in a demo.
.RE
.PP
.\" .BR \-\-history
.\" Replay history file 'history.dat'.
.\" .BR \-\-test\-ai=N
.\" Use the test\-ai for every n\-th AI kart.
.\" (so n=1 means all Ais will be the test ai)
.\"
.\" .BR \-\-disable\-item\-collection
.\" Disable item collection. Useful for
.\" debugging client/server item management.
.\" .BR \-\-network\-item\-debugging
.\" Print item handling debug information.
.BR \-\-server\-config=file
.RS 4
Specify the server_config.xml for server hosting,
it will create one if not found.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-network\-console
.RS 4
Enable network console.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-wan\-server=NAME
.RS 4
Start a Wan server (not a playing client).
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-public\-server
.RS 4
Allow direct connection to the server (without STK server)
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-lan\-server=NAME
.RS 4
Start a LAN server (not a playing client).
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-server\-password=PASS
.RS 4
Sets a password for a server (both client and server).
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-connect\-now=IP
.RS 4
Connect to a server with IP known now (in format
x.x.x.x:xxx(port)), the port should be its public port.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-connect\-now6=IP
.RS 4
Connect to a server with IPv6 known now (in format
[x:x:x:x:x:x:x:x]:xxx(port)), the port should be its
public port.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-server\-id=N
.RS 4
Server id in STK addons for "\-\-connect\-now".
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-network\-ai=N
.RS 4
Numbers of AI for connecting to linear race server, used
together with "\-\-connect\-now".
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-login=S
.RS 4
Automatically log in (set the login).
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-password=S
.RS 4
Automatically log in (set the password).
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-init\-user
.RS 4
Save the above login and password (if set) in config.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-disable\-polling
.RS 4
Don't poll for logged in user.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-port=N
.RS 4
Port number to use.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-auto\-connect
.RS 4
Automatically connect to first server and start race.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-max\-players=N
.RS 4
Maximum number of clients (server only).
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-min\-players=N
.RS 4
Minimum number of clients for ownerless server (server only).
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-motd
.RS 4
Message showing in all lobby of clients, can specify a .txt file.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-auto\-end
.RS 4
Automatically end network game after 1st player finished
for some time (currently his finished time * 0.25 + 15.0).
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-no\-auto\-end
.RS 4
Don't automatically end network game after 1st player finished.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-team\-choosing
.RS 4
Enable choosing team in lobby for team game.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-no\-team\-choosing
.RS 4
Disable choosing team in lobby for team game.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-network\-gp=N
.RS 4
Specify number of tracks used in network grand prix.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-graphical\-server
.RS 4
Enable graphical view in server.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-no\-validation
.RS 4
Allow non validated and unencrypted connection in wan.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-ranked
.RS 4
Server will submit ranking to STK addons server.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-no\-ranked
.RS 4
Server will not submit ranking to STK addons server. You
require permission for that.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-owner\-less
.RS 4
Race will autostart and no one can kick players in server.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-no\-owner\-less
.RS 4
Race will not autostart and server owner can kick players in server.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-firewalled\-server
.RS 4
Turn on all stun related code in server.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-no\-firewalled\-server
.RS 4
Turn off all stun related code in server.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-connection\-debug
.RS 4
Print verbose info for sending or receiving packets.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-no\-console\-log
.RS 4
Does not write messages in the console but to stdout.log.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-h ", "\-\-help
.RS 4
Show this help.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-log=N
.RS 4
Set the verbosity to a value between 0 (Debug) and 5 (Only
Fatal messages).
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-logbuffer=N
.RS 4
Buffers up to N lines log lines before writing.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-root=DIR
.RS 4
Path to add to the list of STK root directories. You can
specify more than one by separating them with colons (:).
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-cutscene=NAME
.RS 4
Launch the specified track as a cutscene. This is for internal
debugging use only.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-enable\-glow
.RS 4
Enable glow effect.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-disable\-glow
.RS 4
Disable glow effect.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-enable\-bloom
.RS 4
Enable bloom effect.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-disable\-bloom
.RS 4
Disable bloom effect.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-enable\-light\-shaft
.RS 4
Enable light shafts (God rays).
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-disable\-light\-shaft
.RS 4
Disable light shafts (God rays).
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-enable\-dof
.RS 4
Enable depth of field.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-disable\-dof
.RS 4
Disable depth of field.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-enable\-particles
.RS 4
Enable particles.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-disable\-particles
.RS 4
Disable particles.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-enable\-animated\-characters
.RS 4
Enable animated characters.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-disable\-animated\-characters
.RS 4
Disable animated characters.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-enable\-motion\-blur
.RS 4
Enable motion blur.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-disable\-motion\-blur
.RS 4
Disable motion blur.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-enable\-mlaa
.RS 4
Enable anti\-aliasing.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-disable\-mlaa
.RS 4
Disable anti\-aliasing.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-enable\-texture\-compression
.RS 4
Enable texture compression.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-disable\-texture\-compression
.RS 4
Disable texture compression.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-enable\-ssao
.RS 4
Enable screen space ambient occlusion.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-disable\-ssao
.RS 4
Disable screen space ambient occlusion.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-enable\-ibl
.RS 4
Enable image based lighting.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-disable\-ibl
.RS 4
Disable image based lighting.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-enable\-hd\-textures
.RS 4
Enable high definition textures.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-disable\-hd\-textures
.RS 4
Disable high definition textures.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-enable\-dynamic\-lights
.RS 4
Enable advanced pipeline.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-disable\-dynamic\-lights
.RS 4
Disable advanced pipeline.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-anisotropic=N
.RS 4
Anisotropic filtering quality (0 to disable). Takes
precedence over trilinear or bilinear texture filtering.
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-shadows=N
.RS 4
Set resolution of shadows (0 to disable).
.RE
.PP
.BR \-\-apitrace
.RS 4
This will disable buffer storage and writing gpu query
strings to opengl, which can be seen later in apitrace.
.RE

.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
This manual page was based an earlier one written by Gonéri Le Bouder
<goneri@rulezlan.org> (2006, GPLv2) for the GNU/Linux Debian Operating System,
in addition to the official SuperTuxKart command-line options, Steve Baker
<sjbaker1@airmail.net> (2004-2015, GPL v3), Joerg Henrichs, Marianne Gagnon
(2011-2015, GPLv3). Edited by J. T-Katiska (2019, GPLv3).

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

.PP
On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public
License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL.

.SH "NOTES"

.IP "1." 4
STK homepage: https://supertuxkart.net/Main_Page
.IP "2." 4
The SuperTuxKart official FAQ: https://supertuxkart.net/FAQ
.IP "3." 4
Previous manual page:
https://web.archive.org/save/https://manpages.debian.org/buster/supertuxkart/supertuxkart.6.en.html

.\" created by instant / docbook-to-man, edited afterwards
